# Data Description
## Introduction
My field is in civil and construction engineering, and I will be conducting an informative research study on Navisworks 4D and clash detection software. This software is widely used in construction to integrate multiple 3D models from different engineering/construction disciplines and identify conflicts (or clashes) between them. Examples of these clashes would be utility overlaps, and constructability issues. In addition to clash detection, Navisworks enables 4D modeling by linking the 3D model with the project schedule. This allows users to visualize construction sequencing over time. Navisworks also has the capability to improve planning, coordination, and communication among project stakeholders. The primary objective of my research is to evaluate the effectiveness and practicality of Navisworks in building construction projects. Some key questions I want to answer are: Does Navisworks save time and money in the long run? How reliable is Navisworks? How long does it typically take to train an employee to become proficient in the software? What are the associated costs for companies using Navisworks, including licensing, training, and changing the existing workflows?

## Dataset
My research will rely heavily on scholarly articles, industry reports, and case studies to build an understanding of Navisworks and its applications. However, to help strengthen my analysis, I plan on generating a dataset which will allow for quantitative comparisons between projects using Navisworks and projects that did not. The dataset will include key features such as project type (e.g., commercial, residential, infrastructure), project context (hospital, school, roadway, etc.), total project duration, project size, total cost, average manpower, and project efficiency. Once the data is collected, it will be organized into a spreadsheet with a target of roughly 200 entries.

# Roles and Responsibilities
In order to manage my data well for my project this term, there are some data management roles that I will need to prioritize.  The first role is data collection/generation, then data organization, generating metadata, quality control, data analysis, software creation and maintenance, data preservation, and finally implementing a data management plan.

# Data Standards and Metadata
In my data collection/generation role, I will be gathering data from scholarly articles, reports, and case studies so that I can make my own dataset with up to 200 entries. When organizing my data I also plan on explicitly defining my dataset features, using consistent units, and dataset readability. Since Metadata is crucial to this project (and is a great way Navisworks can detect clashes that aren't structural, but out of scope for this project), I will be using many sources to obtain and draw conclusions from the dataframe. Quality control will be an important role in handling missing values, inconsistent units, and removing outliers from the data. Then, I will perform a data analysis by making data frames, comparing defined groups, analyzing correlations between variables, and developing meaningful statistical values. This includes calculating values such as mean project duration and cost for projects with and without Navisworks. I also plan to explore correlations between Navisworks usage and key performance indicators such as reduced time, cost savings, and improved efficiency. In order to accomplish this, I will using python, MATLAB and R. The results of my analysis will provide observational insights into potential benefits and limitations of Navisworks. They will support conclusions about whether the software offers measurable advantages in project delivery and also whether adopting the software is justified based on cost and time to train employees. Since the majority of the data will be scholarly articles and one moderately sized dataset, I would estimate the sum of the data to be under 100 MB.

# Storage and Security
Since my data will be constructed from multiple sources, I will not need to follow any formal data management requirements in this project (it will solely be my constructed dataset).  Once I have collected all of my data, it will all be stored in one .csv file, which I will have stored in my project folder.  I will also store the sources I used to construct the data within the project folder.  Most likely, I will have a feature in my .csv file labeling which source I obtained that row of data.  Since I will be using code (R) to create data frames, I will also need to store my source code in the project folder as well.  To make sure this is as organized as possible, I will create three folders inside of the project folder: code, data, and metadata, where each respective file will be stored.

# Access, Data Sharing, Archiving and Preservation
A backup strategy that I was considering for this project is adding all of my project files to Box.  This is because when I leave, my advisor can still obtain my data for future use.  This is something I will need to be cautious of anytime I create or add a new file to my research, that I immediately add it to Box.  I also plan to follow the 3-2-1 rule by making sure my most important files have three copies, in at least two different file types, as well as having one copy offsite.  
