# GRAD521_WolgamottDMP_2026

My field is in civil and construction engineering, and I will be conducting an informative research study on Navisworks 4D and clash detection software. This software is widely used in construction to integrate multiple 3D models from different engineering/construction disciplines and identify conflicts (or clashes) between them. Examples of these clashes would be utility overlaps, and constructability issues. In addition to clash detection, Navisworks enables 4D modeling by linking the 3D model with the project schedule. This allows users to visualize construction sequencing over time. Navisworks also has the capability to improve planning, coordination, and communication among project stakeholders.
The primary objective of my research is to evaluate the effectiveness and practicality of Navisworks in building construction projects. Some key questions I want to answer are: Does Navisworks save time and money in the long run? How reliable is Navisworks? How long does it typically take to train an employee to become proficient in the software? What are the associated costs for companies using Navisworks, including licensing, training, and changing the existing workflows?
My research will rely heavily on scholarly articles, industry reports, and case studies to build an understanding of Navisworks and its applications. However, to help strengthen my analysis, I plan on generating a dataset which will allow for quantitative comparisons between projects using Navisworks and projects that did not. The dataset will include key features such as project type (e.g., commercial, residential, infrastructure), project context (hospital, school, roadway, etc.), total project duration, project size, total cost, average manpower, and project efficiency.
Once the data is collected, it will be organized into a spreadsheet with a target of roughly 200 entries. Using methods such as Python and MATLAB, I will clean and process the dataset. This mean I will need to address missing values, inconsistent units, and project outliers. I will then perform a statistical analysis, including calculating mean project duration and cost for projects with and without Navisworks. I also plan to explore correlations between Navisworks usage and key performance indicators such as reduced time, cost savings, and improved efficiency.
The results of my analysis will provide observational insights into potential benefits and limitations of Navisworks. They will support conclusions about whether the software offers measurable advantages in project delivery and also whether adopting the software is justified based on cost and time to train employees.
Since the majority of the data will be scholarly articles and one moderately sized dataset, I would estimate the sum of the data to be under 100 MB.
